---
layout: post
charset: utf-8
description: Sonny Kothapally is a hacker. He is currently enrolled in a distance learning programme studying computers.
url: http://www.sonnyksimon.com/
locale: en_US
type: website
site_name: sonnyksimon
permalink: /weblog/:title
category: tech
---
A program is something anyone can write, and with enough experience - important programs can easily be coded by a single person. However, the next steps are more important than the program's logic or its functions, and these steps can be aggregated into two areas of primary concern for programmers. 

The first concern has to do with how a program can be turned into a product that someone else can use. In a broad sense, the program must be runnable, testable, maintained or extended by **anyone**.

To turn a program into one that does these, firstly one must *generalize* the program. This means that the form and span of the inputs must be generalized as much as possible whilst keeping the code's logic intact.

Next the program must be tested - testing is done so that the program is predictable and can be relied upon by its users. In testing: more test cases are always better, and a good partitioning strategy should be in place that takes into consideration the boundaries and the range of inputs.

And to ensure that the program is utilised, it must be *documented thoroughly* so that anyone might use it, fix it or extend it. And having good documentation is also good promotion for interested users of the program!

Next we can look at the second concern of the program, which deals with how the program interacts with its environment as a system. 

One must precisely design the interface(s) for the program, whose syntax/semantics guide the program's functions. It is paramount that the program conforms to the interface(s). 

It is after this that resources such as the program memory, I/O interactions, space, time to execute are considered. 

The last step is to then *test* the program with other system components that it interacts with. Note that these tests are separate from those described previously, and MUST be *extensive* to cover all interactions. if the system interacts with 2 components, there are 6 interactions, and for n components there are (n+1)! interactions. Notice how we are also considering the combination when there is no interaction at all (the base case). 

After both concerns have been covered, one realizes that only a ninth of the time is spent programming and the rest is on the concerns discussed above. Good luck!
